This document contains notes on the Trilogy of Scott Adams.

Summa Adams (sic)
=================
- Adams-2014
- Adams-2018
- Adams-2019

Adams-2019
----------
1. What is Loserthink?
2. Political Warming
3. Thinking Like a Psychologist
4. Thinking Like an Artist
5. Thinking Like a Historian
6. Thinking Like an Engineer
7. Thinking Like a Leader
8. Thinking Like a Scientist
9. Thinking Like an Entrepreneur
10. Thinking Like an Economist
11. Things Pundits Say That You Should Not Copy
12. The Golden Age Filter
13. How to Break Out of Your Mental Prison
14. How to Break Others Out of Their Mental Prisons
15. A Final Word

1. Loserthink isn't about being dumb, and it isn't about being underinformed. Loserthink is about unproductive ways of thinking.
2. If you have a negative word for something, it will be easier to avoid it than if you don't.
3. If you have been exposed to the thinking styles of only a few disciplines, you will have large gaps in your ability to productively think about the world.
4. If all you know is how many times someone hit a target, it is loserthink to judge how accurate they are. You also need to know how many times they missed.
5. When lots of money and lots of complexity are in play, fraud is nearly guaranteed.

*MENTAL PRISON* -> The illusions and unproductive thinking that limit our ability to see the world clearly and act upon it rationally.

6. If your opinion depends on reliably knowing another person's inner thoughts, you might be experiencing loserthink.
7. If an ordinary explanation fits the facts, but you have chosen am extraordinary interpretation instead, you might have too much confidence in your opinion.
8. If you think you can gaze into the soul of a stranger and see evil, you might be experiencing a loserthink hallucination.
9. In science, the simplest explanation that fits the facts is preferred. In life, we are all under the illusion that our explanations of things are the simplest ones.
10. Psychological projection is a real phenomenon, but if you think untrained people can identify it in strangers, you might be experiencing loserthink.
11. When you are fit, you will feel more confident in any situation.
12. Effectiveness is more important than ego.
13. If you think ego is who you are, as opposed to a tool you can dial up and down as needed, you might be experiencing loserthink.
14. Put yourself in potentially embarrassing situations on a regular basis for practice. If you get embarassed as planned, watch how one year later you are still alive. Maybe you even have a funny story because of it.
15. Note how other people's embarassments mean little to you when you are an observer. That's how much your embarrassments mean to them: nothing.
16. If you can't think of anything good about a situation and yet you observe that others can, you may be experiencing loserthink.
17. If you allow your mental shelf space to fill up with negative thoughts, you are punishing yourself with an unhealthy form of loserthink.
18. If you can't imagine any other explanation for a set of facts, it might be because you are bad at imagining things.
19. If you believe you learned an accurate version of history in school, you are probably wrong.
20. If bad memories are keeping you from being happy, try crowding out the destructive memories with new and interesting thoughts. Stay busy, in mind and body, and time is on your side.
21. History (even the fake kind) can be useful for persuading others through guilt. But don't make the mistake of persuading yourself that history should matter to your choices today.
22. Focusing on the past when the present offers sufficient paths to success is loserthink. It is better to focus on your own systems of success, and when you succeed, watch how winning fixes most problems.
23. History doesn't repeat, at least not in any way you can use to accurately predict the future. (The exceptions are simple situations.)
24. Belief in slippery slopes is loserthink. It is more useful to look at forces and counterforces to see where things are likely to end up.
25. If you think more privacy is always better, that is a case of loserthink. Every situation is different. Sometimes privacy is the problem that prevents the solution.
26. If you are wondering how skeptical you should be about expert advice on complicated issues, keep in mind that the next expert probably has no respect for the last expert. And vice versa.
27. The best solution to a problem is often unrelated to who is at fault. It is loserthink to believe otherwise.
28. If you analyze a complicated situation with multiple variables in play, and you conclude that only one of them was decisive, there's a good chance you are practicing loserthink.
29. If you find yourself obsessing over the accuracy of facts versus the direction those facts will lead you, you might be in a mental prison.
30. It is loserthink to take political hyperbole literally.
31. It is loserthink to attack an opponent by acting as dumb as they act. It might feel good, but it isn't a winning strategy.
32. Goals are for loserthinkers. Systems are for winners.
33. Sometimes coincidences tell you something useful. But 90 percent of the time they mislead you. Never be too confident about an opinion that depends solely on interpreting a coincidence. 
34. If you are reaching a general conclusion about a big topic by looking at anecdotal evidence, you are engaging in loserthink.
35. Always ask if the opposite of your theory could be true. Doing so keeps you humble and less susceptible to bias until you get to the truth of the situation.
36. Don't believe that every member of a group is as bad as its worst 5 percent. If you do, you're probably among the worst 5 percent of whatever groups you are in.
37.  Rarely is it possible to prove something isn't true. But sometimes we can prove things are true.
38.  Learn to think in microsteps. If you are experiencing couch lock, try wiggling one finger. Then build from there.
39. Sticking with what you know ensures you stay where you are. Take some chances. Leave your lane and build some skills.
40. You can learn to think like a rich person by consuming books, blog posts, and podcasts from the authors who can teach you how. If this sort of reading isn't your thing, make it your thing, one micro-step at a time.
41. Find a way to test your assumption in a small way so no one gets hurt.
42. A basic understanding of economics can help you "see around corners" that others cannot.
43. People who understand economics can more easily spot hoaxes because money drives human behavior in predictable ways.
44. Be skeptical of any experts who have a financial incentive to mislead you and almost no risk on their end.
45. If you think in terms of "the ends of justifying the means" instead of "costs compared to benefits," you are buying into loserthink.
46. If you have a strong opinion about a proposed plan but you have not compared it to the next best alternative, you are not part of a rational conversation.
47. If your opinion considers only the benefits or only the costs of a plan, you might be in a mental prison.
48. A dollar you have today is worth a dollar. But a dollar you might get in the future, if things go as predicted (which is rare), is worth a lot less.
49. If you have only one mortal risk, it might make sense to spend huge amounts of money to drive that risk to zero. But if you have multiple mortal risks, it might make more sense to allocate your money across several risks.
50. If you find yourself experiencing certainty in a complex situation, you are probably experiencing loserthink.
51. Over the long term, straight-line predictions are loserthink, because history rarely in a straight line.
52. If you are accusing someone of making inappropriate moral equivalences, you are probably experiencing loserthink of the mind reader variety.
53. If your only complaint about another person's behavior is that it might normalize something, you might not have any reasons to back your opinion.
54. If you find yourself calling a plan problematic and you can't give some reasonable-sounding examples to back up your opinion, you might be engaging in loserthink.
55. If you make a mistake and your best response is that other people do similar things, you are engaging in loserthink.
56. Arguing for fairness is loserthink because no two people will agree on what it looks like. The exception is when you are trying to persuade, in which rationality matters less.
57. If you find that your best argument depends on the predictive or persuasive characteristics of analogies, you are likely in a mental prison of your own making.
58. Adding friction to any human choice will reduce the number of people making that choice. To assume otherwisse is loserthink.
59. If two or more items are mentioned in the same conversation, that doesn't mean anyone is comparing them for relative value. 
60. For big, complicated questions, "doing your own research" is a waste of time.
61. Never be yourself if you can make yourself into something better through your conscious actions. You are what you do.
62. It is loserthink to call people cowards after those people risked their lives for a cause.
63. If your response to a disagreement is to assign your opponent a dismissive label, you have surrendered the moral and intellectual high ground to wallow in loserthink.
64. If someone does something you appreciate, it is loserthink to ask why it didn't happen sooner.
65. The business model of the press guarantees you will see more negativity than the facts support. Things are often better than they seem, especially in the long run.
66. If you allow the opinions of unsuccessful people in your culture to hold you back, you're engaged in loserthink. If you can learn to think of yourself as free from the cultural gravity of your peers, it will pay off in the long run.
67. If you can't figure out how to do a task the right way, do it the wrong way and watch how quickly you get free advice.
68. Your first priority should be you. If you don't take care of yourself first, you won't be much use to anyone else. But hurry up-- the world has lots of problems and maybe you can help.
69. Reports about famous people and other newsworthy topics are either wrong or misleading about 60 percent of the time, often because they lack context. Wait a few days before forming an opinion on anything new, just in case context is missing. It usually is.
70. We live in a world in which it is dangerous to ignore the advice of experts, but it is almost as dangerous to follow their advice. The trick is to know when the experts are the solution and when they are the jailers of your mental prison.
71. Four-Point Check: News that is true will generally be reported the same on right-leaning news sites like Fox News and Breitbart, as well as on left-leaning CNN and MSNBC. If they all say a hurricane is heading your way, pack your bags. If only the right-leaning news sites or only the left-leaning news outlets report something as fact, it probably isn't.

72. Tips on Identifying Potential Fake News
-------------------------------------------
- Four-Point Check
- Team Bias
- Mind Reading
- Doom Predictions
- Manufactured Outrages
- Absurdity
- Fog of War

73. News that is reported the same by news outlets on both the left and the right is probably true. If you only see a story reported by news sites that lean in one direction, it probably isn't true.
74. If you think humans are rational about their biggest priorities, you are poorly equipped to navigate life.
75. Put yourself in potentially embarrassing situations on a regular basis just to maintain practice. If you get embarrassed as planned, watch how one year later you are still alive. Maybe you even have a funny story because of it.
76. Note how other people's embarrassments mean little to you when you are an observer. That's how much your embarrassments mean to them: nothing.
77. To think more effectively, improve your fitness, diet, and sleeping.
78. It is loserthink to imagine you can accurately discern the intentions of public strangers. It is better to ask people to clarify their opinions and accept that as the best evidence o their inner thoughts.
79. When you see an "unbeleivable" story in the press that is based on interpreting someone else's meaning, it generally fake news. Wait for the clarification to see if there is a perfectly ordinary explanation.
80. It is loserthink to judge people by their much younger selves. People change. And they usually improve.
81. Being absolutely right and being spectacularly wrong feel exactly the same.
82. If your view of reality is consistent with the past but fails to do a good job predicting the near future, you might be in a cultlike organization with a manufactured worldview. If members of your group discourage you from listening to opposing views, it's time to plan your escape. 
83. State ONE thing you believe on this topic that you think I do NOT believe.
84. Don't play Whac-A-Mole with people who have laundry lists of reasons supporting their hallucinations. Ask for the strongest point only, and debunk it if you can. Target their undue confidence, not their entire laundry list.
85. Agree with people as much as you can without lying, and you will be in a better position to persuade.
86. Don't argue in the weeds of a debate. Dimiss the trivial stuff and concentrate on the variables that matter. That gives you the high ground.
87. Ask people with opposing opinions to describe what the future would look like if their view of the world were to play out. Does it sound reasonable?
88. The best way to avoid the mind reading illusion is to look for it in others. That will prime you to better catch yourself when you do your own mind reading.
89. You can't get the right answer until you frame the question correctly. And partisans rarely do.
